Good morning.
Welcome to the AJAX session.
I'm Geoff Garen.
I'm an engineer on the
Safari and WebKit team.
I hope that some of you at
least had a chance to come to
the WebKit party Tuesday night.
Anybody?
For those of you who came,
I hope that your hangovers
the next morning were mild.
So what is AJAX?
Well, in the beginning, God,
as we all know, created the internet.
And the Internet was a web browser
pulling data from a server and
pushing it out to the user.
Pretty simple.
But soon enough,
there were enough servers and enough
users that we started to think of the
Internet as an information superhighway.
And I would call this the first
technology revolution on the Internet.
For its time, this was amazing.
You could be sitting in your basement,
probably in your underwear,
and you could access a
document located in Berkeley,
California, or in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, or London, England,
or anywhere else all over the world.
But there was an important limitation
to this version of the internet.
The information superhighway
was a one-way street.
You could access a document
anywhere in the world,
go to any web page,
but once you were there,
you were kind of stuck.
You couldn't interact with it the
way you could interact with the rest
of the applications on your system.
What you could do is you
could click a link that would
take you to another web page,
and from there you could click
another link to another web page,
and so you could go from place to
place to place on the Internet.
And that experience of going places
on the Internet was so fundamental
to the Internet in its time that
Microsoft even coined the trademark,
where do you want to go today?
Does anybody remember that?
Microsoft's technology
luminary on the internet?
So eventually we all realized we weren't
really happy with that situation.
It wasn't really as interesting
as the desktop experience,
and I think that's what brought
about the second technology
revolution on the internet,
AJAX.
Standard techniques on the client
side with JavaScript to update a
user interface in response to user
behavior and simultaneously through
asynchronous XMLHttpRequest to fetch
new data from the server as necessary.
So here's an example of one of
the first AJAX applications,
and still I think one of the best.
This is Google Maps,
and I can go to maps.google.com
and do a search for San Francisco,
California.
And once I've done that,
I have all kinds of
user interface widgets.
I can slide a slider or click
a button or drag the map,
or I can even use my mouse wheel
in order to interact with this map.
So I can zoom down here
to the Moscone Center,
and I can zoom in a little further
through Street View to see the front
door we all came through this morning.
This is pretty great technology.
I think I can zoom one more level all
the way into the conference itself.
And here we have an Apple engineer
hard at work in the lab.
But now, the kids these days,
with their hippin' and their hoppin'
and their bippin' and their boppin'
and their remixing and their sampling,
they love to take content that's already
out there on the internet and mash it
all up together into a new experience
that's greater than the sum of its parts.
And so we call this mashups,
and I think it's the beginning
of the third technology
revolution on the internet.
And I say beginning because I think
that there are some critical
limitations in the way that mashups
work today and the APIs that they rely
on that have really held back mashups
from reaching their full potential.
Let me give you some examples.
Here's Zillow.com,
and it has that same AJAX map
interface that I showed you earlier,
but Zillow has mashed up into
the map their own real estate
and housing information.
So as I look at an area on the map,
I can see homes for
sale and their prices,
and also recently sold
homes and things like that.
Simultaneously,
on the left side of this web page,
I have an ad for Lowe's Home Improvement,
which is a document that came
from another part of the Internet.
The assumption being that, you know,
if I'm looking for a home,
I'm probably interested
in home improvement.
The limitation here is that the Lowe's ad
doesn't know what the map is looking at.
If it did, it could show me something
a lot more relevant.
For example,
locations of Lowe's stores in the area.
Or it could even go out and fetch me Yelp
reviews of Lowe's stores in that area,
assuming that the reviews are positive.
Maybe there could be some filtering.
So here's another example.
This is a fun one.
This is Yahoo Pipes,
which is an application for making your
own mashups and then publishing them.
And here I've made the
I Can Has Cheeseburger pipe,
which will go out and search
Flickr for photos that match
I Can Has Cheeseburger and then display
the results in a Yahoo web page.
And this is what that looks like.
So once again, this is great technology.
Obviously,
we need to accelerate the speed at which
kittens proliferate on the internet.
But there are some critical
limitations here as well.
The main limitation being that
I have to do all my communication
through the Yahoo servers.
So there's an extra round trip for
every single resource that I request,
basically making my application
twice as slow as it needs to be.
And also,
I can only make requests for things
that are statically supported by
programs written on the Yahoo servers.
So I can't make arbitrary requests.
And if you're maintaining mashups like
this on your own server-side mashups,
then you have to write a lot
of glue code on the server-side
in order to make this happen.
So that's really what my
presentation today is about.
It's about the third technology
revolution on the internet,
mashups.
And critically,
it's about new standards that
we've implemented in Safari to
release mashups from their existing
limitations and allow them to fulfill
their full potential in your websites
and web applications and desktop
applications that rely on web content.
I'll cover three categories of APIs.
First, I'm going to cover APIs for
document manipulation.
When you get new data over the server,
these are the APIs that can initialize
your web page or update parts of
its user interface as necessary.
And mostly,
these are things that have been around
in libraries for quite some time now,
and now they've been standardized and
implemented natively in the browser,
making them easier and
quite a bit faster.
Then I'll move on to message passing.
This is a new API that allows documents
on the client side to communicate
and interact with one another,
even though they don't completely trust
each other and they need security in
an environment of mutual suspicion.
And finally, I'll cover Access Control,
a new standard implemented in Safari that
allows your documents on the client side
to access not just your own servers,
but any other server they need
access to on the Internet.
And I think that these three
APIs together create a compelling story
for the future of the Internet where
in very simple and efficient
ways you can update your document
either through communication with other
documents on the client side or as each
document communicates with any server
it needs access to on the Internet.
And I think that these together
can maybe take that Web 2.0
plus and kick it up a notch,
maybe even to Web 3.0.
And the reason I would call it
that is that here we have internet
technology not just trying to
catch up to the desktop anymore,
but maybe even surpassing it,
doing things that you can't
really do with a static bucket
of bits on a hard drive.
So let me get started with
document manipulation.
Here we have one of my favorite blogs,
the Death Bacon Kket.
I like this blog because it tells me
what I'm going to have for dinner.
And as you're probably familiar,
there are critical portions of
this website that if I were going
to reference them in my markup,
there are pretty
standard ways to do that.
So for example, I have a masthead,
which is a div with the
ID attribute masthead.
And in CSS, to style that masthead,
I just need to use the number
sign followed by its ID,
and bingo,
I can set a font or anything else I need.
In JavaScript,
we have the same capability.
You can call getElementById to
grab that masthead and maybe
programmatically insert text or
do anything else that you need to.
So this is a pretty simple API.
It's been around forever.
It's quite fast.
But it is limited,
and the limitation is that
it doesn't scale very well.
I can't really set an ID on
every single element in my page,
and sometimes I need to reference
more than one element at once.
So scaling up a little bit,
we also have the ability to reference
elements by their tag names.
So here I've referenced all the
anchor tags in the DeathBake and KCAT.
In CSS, I just need to supply that A,
the anchor tag,
and then I can style them,
turn them all red, something like that.
In JavaScript,
I can call getElements by tag
name and supply that anchor tag,
and bingo, now I can add dynamic
behaviors to them as well.
But there's one other element on
this page I want to talk about,
and here we have three portions of
the page that are all picture frames.
They look like picture frames.
I need them styled that way.
And that's how I think of
them when I'm interacting with
this page and composing it.
And in CSS,
I can reference them because I've
given them all the class name,
picture frame.
And so I just use that dot
picture frame notation,
and I can style all my picture frames
and add the border that I need.
But you'll notice that the
JavaScript box is empty.
There's no way to grab all
the picture frames on the site
in order to work with them.
So new in Safari 3.1,
we've implemented that
ability in JavaScript,
and it's called GetElementsByClassName.
This is a new standard as well.
It's pretty simple.
It takes a space-separated
list of class names so you
can supply one class or many,
and it returns to you a live
node list of all the elements
that have that class name.
So this is a node list that will
update as you update your DOM.
Here's an example where I've grabbed
all the posts from the DeathBake in
KCAT by calling getElementsByClassName
and passing in the class post.
So you can start to see how
there's a structure in my web
page that I can reference because
it's already there for CSS,
but it doesn't necessarily
conform just to tag names or IDs.
Here's an example of using
more than one class name.
So I'm trying to access
just the new posts.
So I pass posts separated
by a space from new,
and I get all the elements that
have both of those class names.
One interesting use of Access by
Class Name is microformats.
Microformats are mini standards for ways
to compose the data in your documents
in a standard way so that different
tools can read them and access them.
So if your web page conforms
to the Hcard microformat,
you have data in your web page
that's contact information.
And if you need to get at all
the contacts in your web page,
all you do is you call
getElementsByClassName and you pass
the Hcard class name and bingo,
that's all of the contacts in your page.
If you were at the
Rich User Interface in Safari session,
you know that there's a new API,
a standard API in Safari for adding
accessibility annotations to your page,
and that's called ARIA.
And basically you set attributes
on elements that annotate
what kind of element they are.
So if you have images on your page,
for example, that function as buttons,
you need to set a role attribute on
those images and say this is a button.
So here's a really simple way to do
that when you initialize your web page.
You get elements by class name to
grab all the buttons on your page,
and then you iterate through them,
setting the attribute role to button.
And all of a sudden,
you have this rich user interface
in accessibility land as well.
We did some ad hoc performance testing
because we love performance testing,
and we discovered that accessing
elements by class name in
Safari is a full 30 times faster
than the fastest alternative,
which is XPath, a fairly complicated
XML querying language.
And XPath is itself, I don't know,
maybe between 3 and 10 times
faster than doing this manually
through JavaScript and DOM.
So at the limit,
we're talking about a speedup
of between 100 and 300x.
Think about that for a minute.
That's like when Steve Jobs came on
stage to announce the new Intel machines,
the switch from PowerPC, and he said,
5x faster.
Now imagine that immediately
after that he said,
but there's one more thing,
and he threw that
computer in the garbage,
and he brought out a new computer,
and he said, 5x faster again.
Then he threw out that computer,
and he said, wait,
there's one additional thing,
and he brought out a new computer.
That's what you get here.
So I think if you haven't been doing
this kind of dynamic content before,
you should consider it because
the performance really is there
to support it on the client side.
And if you have been doing it already,
either through libraries
or through your own code,
you're going to get a
magic speedup in Safari.
So as the big Lebowski likes to say,
you've got to feed the monkey.
And I've decided to monetize this web
page by adding Flash ads all over it.
I think they look great.
I have on the left-hand
side the Home Depot,
because this is a pretty homey website.
And on the right-hand side, Heineken,
because nothing goes better with
chocolate cake than Heineken.
And I don't think they detract
from the user experience at all.
And I'm making a killing on these.
And so in CSS, if I want to style all
the ads on my web page,
I have this very complex and
interesting and powerful selector
language to reference different
elements through different criteria.
Here, I've selected all my ads
through the following criteria.
I want everything that
has the class Movie,
but I don't want all
the movies on my page.
I don't want to select the movie of
chopping onions or anything like that.
And I also don't want the
movies that are not plugins,
so I want it to be an element
that has the tag name Object.
And finally,
I want it to be a descendant of
something that has the tag name Add.
Or, I'm sorry, the class name Add.
So that's how I know I have all
the Flash ads on my website.
You'll notice once again that
the JavaScript box is empty.
So there's a new standard that we've
implemented in Safari 3.1 called
querySelector that allows me to do
the exact same thing from JavaScript.
It takes as its argument a CSS selector,
and it returns the first element that
matches that selector in document order.
So here's an example where I grab
the first Flash ad on my website by
calling querySelector and passing that
same selector I showed you from CSS.
Of course, what I really want is to get
all of the ads on my site.
So another new standard implemented
in Safari 3.1 is querySelectorAll
that does the exact same thing,
but it gives me all the elements
that match that selector,
not just the first one.
So once again,
it takes as its argument a CSS selector,
and it returns a static node list.
So this is not a node list that will
update as layout and rendering change.
The reason is that layout and
rendering need to be wicked fast.
So we give you a snapshot of what
things look like at the time,
and if you want to run this
CSS selector again later to
see if something has changed,
you should just call querySelector again.
So here's an example of getting
all the movies on my web page
by calling querySelectorAll.
One reason I might want to do this is
because my evil Sith Lords have told me
that they're not going to pay me unless
all of their annoying ads start running
the moment that the web page loads.
So here's a way I can do that.
I make my selector to
grab all my Flash ads.
But once again,
I don't want to accidentally
start the onion chopping
video or anything like that.
Then I pass it to querySelectorAll,
and I get a list of all the ads.
And then I can run through
the list calling startPlay to
start all the Flash movies.
Now I'm sure that most of you will
be more merciful to your users.
And so you would probably use this
technology for good and rather than evil.
And you might have a link
on your web page that says,
OK, I've seen enough of your ads.
Please pause them.
And that would look exactly the same way,
except you would call
stopPlay instead of start.
So the lesson to take away here is
that the browser is doing all of the
heavy lifting now of selecting all
the elements that you need to update.
And all you need to do is write
the code that actually adds the
behavior you're interested in.
Once again, we did a little ad hoc
performance testing,
and we found that the Access by
CSS selector in Safari 3.1 was
a full 10 times faster than the
fastest library implementation here.
And, you know,
it's not that these libraries are
any slouches or anything like that.
It's just that the engine is already
computing a lot of this information
for the sake of layout and rendering,
and now we're just making that
computation available to JavaScript.
So we have a lot more power
in the engine than libraries
do with a lot less overhead.
So if you're using one of
these libraries already,
they will automatically fall back
and use the native implementation,
and you'll just get a magic speedup.
If you're not using these libraries,
then I encourage you to consider
this a new tool in your arsenal
for addressing your document.
So we have a demo for you of
Access by Class Name and CSS Selector,
some of the things you can do with it.
And for that, I'd like to invite to the
stage Kevin McCullough.
Thank you, Geoff.
I am Kevin McCullough,
engineer on the Safari and WebKit team,
and I'm going to show you a demo of
what Geoff was just talking about.
So let's bring up Safari here.
And I've created a website that is
a copy of our Surf and Safari blog.
On the right hand side,
if you haven't seen the blog,
please go to it, webkit.org/blog.
On the right hand side,
we have a list of links that
are interesting to the blog.
And down the center,
we have a set of posts.
And if I scroll down this page,
on the right,
you're going to see our archives
that are listed by month and year.
And you can click on any of one of those,
and it will take you to
that month in that year,
and you can see all the posts there.
What this site is missing is
a list of links that tell you
what posts are on this page.
So what I've set up is using
getElementsByClassName.
On the right hand side, I have a button.
And using that button,
it will generate a list of links for
every post in the page that will take
you to that post if you click on it.
And it gets those posts by using
getElementsByClassName because
I happen to know that every
post has the class name post.
So let's do that right now.
So there's all the links.
And I can take you to each
or any of these links.
Let's just pick one.
And it scrolls partway down the page,
and it finds the post
that was on the page.
So let's scroll back to the top.
And let's look at the code for that.
This code is fairly simple.
If you look at the top function,
all I'm doing is getElement by className,
and I give it the className post,
which is this one here.
I iterate over the list of links or
list of elements that are returned.
I create list items out of them,
and then I append them
to the unordered list.
And if you read the next function,
I do the exact same thing
with querySelectorAll.
But the querySelector
is a little different.
I want to get all the posts,
but I want all the
images in all the posts.
So what I want to do is find
every image on the page,
but I don't want every image on the page.
I just want the images that
are inside of the posts.
So it uses, obviously, as Geoff told you,
the CSS selector syntax,
and it gets only images on
the posts-- or in the posts.
So, for example,
the Surf and Safari logo in
the top left is not going to be
found when I click this link.
So let's do that now.
And here's all the
images in all the posts,
and I can click on any one of those,
and it'll bring up.
There's our beloved Kate Hyatt,
daughter of Dave.
And let's click another one.
There she is again.
So hopefully this shows you
just how easy it is to use.
If you're using a library already,
you should be able to just
use the exact same function.
If not,
it was obviously very simple to just
generate all the elements that I was
looking for using getElementsByClassName
or CSSSelector syntax.
And now I'll turn you back over to Geoff.
Ladies and gentlemen,
Kate Hyatt and Kevin McCullough.
So that was document manipulation.
We showed you get elements by
class name when you want to rely on
the class-based structure of your
document rather than tag names or IDs.
And also,
for the most powerful syntax available,
query selector and querySelectorAll.
Now let's move on to the good stuff,
the new stuff, message passing.
As you may remember from grade school,
life is a lot more fun
when you can pass messages,
when you can connect and interact
with the people around you.
And the same is the case on the Internet.
It's more interesting when documents that
you load can interact with one another.
For example, what I described earlier,
the Lowe's ad knowing what I'm
looking at in the map so that
it can give me tailored content.
So I guess what I'd really like on the
client side is for all the documents
I load into my web browser to be able
to access one another so that they can
do that kind of sharing and cooperation.
But there's a problem.
You see, on the internet,
nobody knows that you're a dog.
Which is my way of saying
that it's largely anonymous.
You know, you don't -- when you click the
first link in an RSS feed or on Digg,
you don't really do a background
check on the author of the page.
You don't even know who
the author of the page is,
and you don't care.
You just trust that the browser's
going to display the page and,
you know, not do anything bad.
Of course, the author of the page may
not be a human or a dog.
The author might be the Big Bad Wolf,
a hacker or a phisher or some other
attacker who wants to steal your private
data in order to make bank transactions
and send your account to Nigeria.
Try to save a prince in Nigeria?
Buy a bedpost from Nigeria?
So I want to give you some examples,
two examples of the attacks that
are possible in the web browser.
This won't be a comprehensive discussion
of security in the web browser,
but it should be enough
to give you a context for
understanding message passing.
So in the first attack, the question is,
what happens if documents can read
from one another on the client side?
So I have open in one window
my bank account website.
And because I got to check my ad revenue,
I mean.
And I have in the other
window a hacker website that
I accidentally stumbled upon.
So if documents on the client
side can read from one another,
you'll notice that my bank account has
sensitive information in the website.
It has my account number, my name,
my address, enough information to be
able to withdraw funds.
So if they can read from one another,
that hacker website can
grab that data for itself.
And now they're off to the
races with my ad revenue.
If this happens to your own
website and the users of your site,
then it can really cause you to fold.
So in the second example, you might say,
OK, I'm not going to allow documents
to read from one another.
But what if I just allow them
to write to one another so
they can at least communicate?
Well, there's a problem here, too,
because you'll notice that the
hacker has cleverly crafted a login
field that exactly matches the
look and feel of my bank website.
It has the same color scheme
and borders and everything.
And so if the hacker can write
to a document on the client side,
they can do this.
And then all of a sudden,
I think that my bank account is
asking me for my name and password,
and I type it in, and the hacker is once
again off to the races.
Because of these dangers,
the default browser security model
simply prohibits access between
any documents on the client side,
with one exception.
The exception is if both documents
came from exactly the same origin,
the assumption being that the origin
isn't keeping secrets from itself.
In order to determine origin,
the browser applies a three-pronged test.
The first prong is host.
So, for example,
if I load a document from apple.com
and a document from google.com,
they can't access one another
because the host does not match.
The second prong is port number.
So, for example,
even if I load two documents,
both from apple.com,
they still can't access one
another if I loaded one from
port 80 and one from port 81.
And finally, the third prong is Scheme.
So once again,
two documents from apple.com.
If I load them into the browser,
they still can't access one another if
I loaded one through an HTTP URL and
the other through an FTP URL.
Because of this browser security model,
I think you basically see two kinds
of mashups on the Internet today.
And the first I'll call no access.
What we have here is a web page with
sensitive information from secure.com,
and it wants to embed a banner ad.
So what it does is it cuts out a portion
of its page where that ad will render,
and it sticks the ad there in an iframe,
in a separate document.
This is pretty good for ads
because it gives you a black box,
but it's completely secure.
But if the ad wants to use
JavaScript to access the context
surrounding it in order to see
what's going on and customize itself,
that's forbidden by the browser.
So this model is pretty
good because it's secure,
but it's not very flexible.
And the second kind of
mashup I'll call full access.
Here on secure.com,
I don't just want an ad anymore.
I want to embed a full
user interface widget.
So it really needs access to the
document around it in order to respond
to events and interact and be a part of
the correct layout and things like that.
So here the widget comes from widget.com.
And in order to accomplish
this interaction,
I've embedded the widget directly
into my document by loading
a script from widget.com.
In this full access mashup,
the flexibility is great.
Through JavaScript,
the widget can access the whole document.
But the danger here is that
the user will be hacked.
If you include a script in this way,
you really have to trust the
script's author and hope that
they're not going to conduct the
kind of attack I showed you earlier,
either by reading information or
by writing information or by karate
chopping and kicking your dog.
And that's why I think we
see basically two kinds of
mashups today on the Internet.
We see ads, and we also see mashups with
highly trusted sources like mashups
with Google and Microsoft Maps.
But I want to see more.
I want to see all of the potential
of the internet unleashed.
And I think for this what we
need is a kind of Goldilocks
solution that is not no access,
but at the same time it's not full
access that leaves you insecure.
Instead, it's kind of mediated access,
and that's what we call message passing.
And here's what it looks like.
So what we have here is two different
documents on different domains.
And so we've loaded them
into different documents,
and that way the browser applies
all of its security measures.
But at the same time, the documents,
if they choose,
can pass messages to one another,
and then the recipient can decide
what to do with that message.
And that way,
the message passer has no direct control
and therefore cannot conduct attacks.
There are new standards implemented
in the Safari 4 Developer Preview
and also available in WebKit Nightly
Builds that implement this technology.
The first half is the ability to
send a message to another document,
and that's called
postMessage in JavaScript.
It takes as its argument a message
string and a destination origin.
Each of these arguments is important.
The message is a string because
we don't want to let you send
behavior to another document,
like an object or a function.
If you could do that,
then you could conduct the second
kind of attack I described,
of inserting a login field
or something like that.
So you can only send
primitive data a string,
and it's up to the recipient
to decide what to do with it.
You need to supply a destination
origin because if you're
sending sensitive information,
you want to make sure that the
browser verifies that it's going
only to the right recipients.
If you like, if you're not sending
sensitive information,
if you're just sending like the weather
or where we're located on a map,
you can supply a wildcard, star,
and then anybody can receive
the message if they like.
Finally,
message passing through postMessage
dispatches asynchronously,
so the browser won't really
tell you who's receiving your
message or anything like that.
Once again, for the sake of security,
and if you want a kind of API where
you can know that people have
listened and received your messages,
then they need to send
a message back to you.
So here's an example
of calling postMessage.
This is kind of a hello world.
I'm on secure.com.
I've embedded a widget
in another document.
And I post a message, hello widget.
And I specify I want this to go
to a document from widget.com.
I think that's where it's going.
Please verify.
On the other side of the fence,
you need to be able to
listen for messages,
and this is another new standard
implemented in the Safari 4 developer
preview in the latest WebKit Nightly
Builds for receiving a message,
and that's the message event.
This is a message just like
any other message in the DOM,
like onClick or the load event,
but this is the message event.
And so here's an example of
registering for that inside the widget.
First, I call addEventListener,
and I pass the string message to say
I'm listening for the message event.
And then I supply a function
that should be called when
that message is passed to me.
Importantly,
the first thing I always do is I check
and verify the origin of the sender.
For example,
if I'm going to respond to a message
by coughing up sensitive information,
I need to make sure that the
person asking is the right person.
Otherwise,
a hacker can conduct an attack,
even in this model.
The second thing that I do
is I take the event data and
I do my useful work with it.
And the event data is the string
that was sent to postMessage.
So here it's helloWidget.
And finally, I might even reply to the
original sender so we can get
two-way communication going.
So this is a very powerful
API for two-way communication.
So we have a demo of some of the
things you can do with message passing,
and I'd like to invite back
to the stage Kate Hyatt,
Kevin McCullough.
Thank you, Geoff.
So let's take a look at that.
I've created yet another website.
It's a fake social networking site.
I call it My Planet WebKit.
I've got my sufficiently awkward
self-image off to the right.
It has some third-party applications,
and in the middle I have
my list of friends.
And apparently I need to get out more
because they're all inanimate objects.
Or me.
But let's say for this whole mashup
and message passing scenario,
I want to play this third party game.
On the far left, you see there's a third
party game button.
I'm going to click that.
And what it's going to do,
it's going to open the
game in a new window.
And I'm doing that because I want to show
you that these are on different domains.
So here's my game.
And I'm going to use the
Zoom feature to show you that--
This domain is myplanetwebkit.org,
and this is game.thirdparty.com.
Very creative.
But you'll notice that the third
party game has my friends in there.
It has their images, it has their names,
you can't see their names right now,
but why is that?
That's because I used post
message when the game was opened,
to tell it that these are the URLs of
the images for these friends and it
gave some context information so that
when I click on one of these images,
it's gonna use post message back
to my social network to tell me
that that friend was clicked on and
increase their score in the game.
So I'll give you an example.
It's very simple, obviously.
Safari.
Now, it has a click count of two.
I clicked on it twice
on a different domain.
It sent the message over.
But this isn't really what you want.
You want this game embedded
in your social network.
So what I'm going to do is I've
set up so that when I click
on the top image of the game,
it will embed itself
inside the social network.
So now it's in here.
So now I can do the same thing.
I can click.
It's a really fun game.
Safari is leading.
Seafoam breaks ahead.
Safari, Seafoam, who's going to -- oh!
I play this all the time.
So let's take a look at the code.
So here's the code in the social network.
At the top, I add an event listener
for the new message event.
And then the next function under
it is a post message handler.
And it checks the origin to see that
it came from the third party game.
Just this line right here.
[Transcript missing]
If you notice this function, addToScore,
it actually uses querySelector.
Remember from previously,
querySelector will get the first
element that matches the CSS selector,
and I am dynamically inserting
the friend's name into the ID that
I want to use to get which friend,
because I know each friend
has a score element,
or an element with the score class name,
but I don't know which one it is until
the post message is actually received.
So that's just another example
of how to use querySelector.
And with that,
I'll turn you back over to Geoff.
Thanks, Kevin.
So that was message passing.
You use postMessage in
order to send a message,
and you call addEventListener and specify
the message event in order to listen.
Kevin showed you an example of two
components that really trust one another.
So you're sending names of friends
and images and things like that.
And that's one possible configuration.
But the important thing to take away
here is that there's a wide range
of configurations available to you.
So sometimes, you're going to make data
available to everybody,
for example, the weather.
And sometimes, you're going to decide not
to make any data available,
for example, a bank website.
And there's a lot of in
between there as well,
depending on what you're trying to do.
Finally, let's cover access control.
So here I have Google Maps,
and it's great.
I can interact with this
map that it's showing me.
But critically,
it gets all of its data to update
the map from maps.google.com.
For example,
you can't configure your server to
store your data on data.google.com or
anything like that because the browser
will prohibit that access based on
the origin test I described earlier.
That also means that you can't
include multiple kinds of
data from different sources.
For example,
when I'm looking at San Francisco,
I'd really like to know
about the weather here.
But Google can't go out to weather.com
or the National Observatory in
order to get that data because the
browser denies that access as well.
Another thing that would be
great for Google to show me in
San Francisco is maybe the news.
I learned at the WebKit party that
the New York Times is looking into
making freely available a lot of
its news stories for any websites
that want to aggregate them.
And this would have been really
helpful for me when I lived in
San Francisco because I used to
go to this barbecue joint all the
time and I would get directions
to that through Google Maps.
And it turns out that that was really
the number one place for people
to be murdered in San Francisco.
And maybe a couple news stories along
that line as I was looking at part
of that map would have been nice,
you know.
But don't worry, I survived.
So like I said,
the browser security model
prohibits that access.
And the reason is that
the hosts don't match.
Maps.google.com does not
match data.google.com,
nor does it match weather.com
or any of those other servers
you might want to access,
newyorktimes.com, et cetera.
So in order to explain this,
I'm going to give you another brief
explanation of a potential attack.
Once again,
I have a hacker website accidentally
opened in one window and my
bank website in another window.
And each of those is able to
get access to its own server,
hacker.com and bank.com.
But what happens now if the hacker
website tries to make a request to my
bank web server in order to directly
initiate a funds transfer to Nigeria?
What happens is on the internet,
nobody knows you're a dog.
They don't know who you are.
It's largely anonymous.
All that the bank sees is that there's
a request coming from my web browser
over my IP address during my session,
which is maintained by
cookies and other things.
So it looks like me.
The hacker is masquerading as me when
it makes this request to my bank.
And that's why the browser prohibits it.
Once again, what we need is a kind of
Goldilocks solution that doesn't
prohibit any access to any server.
But at the same time, when you do access,
it doesn't allow you to pretend to be me.
And so that's the new standard
that we've implemented in Safari,
and it's called access control.
And basically,
all it is is when you make one
of these cross-site requests,
we stamp it with the identity of
the origin making the request.
So here we've stamped the
hacker onto the request.
And I'm pretty sure the bank
is going to say no to this one.
So this is a new standard we've
implemented in the Safari 4
developer preview in the
latest WebKit Nightly Builds.
It's called Access Control,
and it's a two-part stage,
two-part handshake.
The first part of the
handshake is Safari's job,
where it will send an extra
request header in the HTTP requests
you see on the server side.
And that header is Access Control origin.
That's what stamps the big
bad wolf onto the connection.
It says the origin of
this request is whomever.
So in the maps.google.com case,
you'll see something like this when
the request comes over the wire.
Access Control origin
of http maps.google.com.
Now, once you see a request on
the server side like this,
you have a wide range of
options available to you.
The first thing that you
can do is you can do exactly
what your servers do today.
Ignore this extra header,
respond to the request as normal,
and then the browser will see that you
have not participated in the handshake,
and it will drop the request,
and the connection will
fail as it does today.
The second option you have is
you can inspect the request,
look at the origin,
decide if you want to send back data,
and maybe you decide no.
In that case, just don't respond.
And the browser will drop
the request just like today.
But if you do choose to respond
and participate in the handshake,
your server needs to send
back another special header,
the access control header.
And this header specifies who
should get access to this response,
the origin that should get
access to this response.
So the simplest-- I'm sorry.
There's a fairly powerful syntax
available to you where you can
supply a whitelist and a blacklist
through allow and exclude.
The excludes are optional.
I'm not going to go deeply into
the syntax because the simplest
thing for you to do is just make
the decision on the server side of
whether you want to allow or deny,
and then just copy and paste
the URL that is the origin into
your access control response.
So here the simplest thing to do,
if weather.com wants to provide
the weather to google.com,
it can just respond by saying
allow http maps.google.com.
Or maybe Google hasn't paid its
bill this year and weather.com
wants to deny the data,
in which case it can just not respond
or respond without the special
header and the connection will fail.
We have a demo of Access Control,
and here's Kevin McCullough.
Thanks again, Geoff.
So in this fictitious world of
social networks that I've created,
I'm also assuming-- well,
I'm going to assume,
I'm going to assert-- that I've
created an online dating site.
And these are on two different domains.
They're two different sites.
But I've made both of them,
and I'd like to be able to share that
information if the user opts into it.
So if you'll notice on
the left of my demo here,
there's this red heart, and it says,
to get my romance connection information.
And that's going to make a
cross-domain XML HTTP request to
attempt to figure out who I've
registered as my romantic interest.
says, if that's too small, but it says,
I'm not authorized.
I haven't actually set that up yet.
So let's go ahead and do that.
Open a new window, and I'm going to go
to Romance Connection.
I look pretty good.
Again, I have kind of-- you can tell
it's made by the same person.
I've got my user information on the left.
I've got people interested in the middle.
Geoff?
Let's go ahead and click
reject on that one.
So I have a couple of
people interested in me,
and on the right-hand side
I have a button that says to
share my romance connection
information with my other site,
myplanet.webkit.org.
So I'm going to click on that.
And it says the Romance Connection is now
sharing information with MyPlanet WebKit.
And what that's done is behind the scenes
registered that domain in a database.
So when we look later at the header,
you'll see that that gets added
to the access control list.
Then I'm going to have to go ahead and
pick somebody who I'm interested in.
And of course, who wouldn't pick Seafoam?
And so I'm all set to go.
Except on the far left here in
this black and white button,
you might notice it says,
show malicious gossip ad.
I haven't embedded that because
I want to pop it open again and show
you that it's on a different domain.
So just like the third party game,
I'm going to do that.
And it opens kevingossip.com because
in the world that I've set up,
somebody is interested in gossip on me.
And this is my demo,
so you're all living in my
fantasy world for today.
Let's go ahead and look at that domain.
And it is in fact kevin.gossip.com.
I'm going to go ahead and embed
that back into my Romance website.
So now this is the scenario that
Geoff was talking about where I've
got a malicious ad that I'm logged in,
so it's got my session cookies being
sent when it makes an XMLHttpRequest.
And likewise, it's from my IP address.
So for a lot of ways,
it might seem like this
is me making this request.
This would probably happen on load,
but I've set it up so
when I click this button,
it's going to attempt to
make that request of my
Romance Connections database.
And it could not get my information,
so that's great.
So let's take a look at
that code real quick.
So here's the code for the
gossip website malicious ad.
All it's doing is making
an XMLHttpRequest.
It does a get on
romanceconnection.com database
romancecgi and sends that request.
If it fails,
then it puts up this blocked message.
If it succeeds, it's going to put up
the accessed message.
Now, the next piece of code I'm going to
show you is the exact same function.
[Transcript missing]
And let's see what happens now.
Hey, Seafoam.
So this is our mashup.
We have three different domains.
We have a dating website,
we have a social networking site,
and we have a third-party game.
They're all interacting with
the main host site in ways
that are opt-in and secure,
and you have now data from
all these different domains
interacting with each other.
And so with that,
I'll turn you back over to Geoff.
Thanks, Kevin.
So that was Access Control.
It's a new handshake between
the browser and the server.
The browser will send an
Access Control origin to
stamp a connection with the
origin making the request.
And if the server wants to opt in,
it can send an Access Control response
to specify what origin can
access the resulting data.
Just like with postMessage
and the message event,
Access Control allows a wide
range of security configurations.
Some servers will just say, "Yeah, sure,
always.
I don't care.
It's the weather.
It's the news." Some servers
will just not participate at all,
like my bank.
I sure hope it doesn't
participate in this handshake.
And some servers will have interesting
intermediate configurations where
they'll make some of the decisions
or they'll ask the web browser to
make the decision for them based
on a list of allow and exclude.
The point here is that it's
really up to you to configure
your servers as you like.
And I think that with both
of these technologies,
Access Control and message passing,
what you'll start seeing is that
different sources will start rolling
out support for these technologies.
For example, you know,
the New York Times will start
supporting with its own data servers,
and other clients that you interact
with might want to start configuring
their ads to accommodate these APIs.
And more and more,
you'll see support for this on the web.
And if you're managing your
own data and your own servers,
you get that flexibility.
- Yeah.
You get that flexibility immediately.
You can start putting data on whatever
origin you like and configuring it,
configuring your hosts how you like.
So that's all I have for you today.
We covered document manipulation,
APIs that have been in use
sort of for a while now,
but haven't been standardized.
Now they are standardized.
They're implemented in Safari.
They're a lot easier to
use and faster than before.
We covered message passing,
a technology for documents on
the client side from different
origins to securely communicate
and mash up in an opt-in fashion.
And finally, access control,
technology for a document on
the client side to be able
to access data from multiple
servers if they choose to opt in.
For more information on WebKit,
the engine that powers Safari on
iPhone and Macintosh and Windows,
you can check out the
WebKit open source project.
We have a website and
also an IRC channel.
Our technologies evangelists are
Vicki Murley and Mark Malone,
if you want to get in
touch with them by email.
We've got some great related
sessions coming up later today.
Utilizing offline data in Safari will
teach you how to keep data that's
specific to the user on the user's
computer so they can continue using
your application even when they're
offline and so that when they're online,
the application runs a little faster
because it doesn't have to round trip to
your network in order to get data that
doesn't really need to be on your host.
It's not as dynamic as the other stuff.
We'll also cover debugging websites
using our integrated developer tools,
which is really essential if you're
trying to do anything complex in Safari.